What bank should you use?
I personally prefer to use large banks,
or large financial institutions where
the bank machines or ATMs are close to your house
if applicable, because fees add up big time,
and quite often, your own bank's bank machine
have little or no fees compared to using
competitor bank machines, in many cases.
We already understand the power of compound interest.
And if we save just a few dollars
every single month on fees,
then this can literally lead to many thousands of dollars
in money saved in a lifetime.
And if you want more details on this,
please revisit the first exercise in the course,
where we calculated what small savings,
like making your own coffee or tea, can lead to
in the long run, which is much, much bigger savings.
So when you select a bank, in addition to comparing
what the interest rate is on your money in that bank,
please research what the fees are at the bank
and at your current bank and competing banks.
Ask them about these fees.
And this will be documented in the exercise.
Ask them about bank machine fees,
debit card fees if applicable, bounced cheque fees,
fees to print and send you cheques,
and do we need to have a minimum balance
in order to pay lower fees?
Also ask them if there's other withdrawal fees.
And lastly, just ask if there's any fees that
you have not talked about with this bank representative yet.
You can even ask them this way.
"Please let me know what the most misunderstood aspect
"of the fee structure is
"of keeping money at your bank by existing consumers."
And why do I spend so much time on fees?
Because this is how all financial services companies
try to rip us off.
And some of them are noble,
but I'm trying to watch your back here.
And when we discuss investing in mutual funds
later in the course in part three,
you will be so upset about the fees that they charge us.
You'll be so upset that you'll
likely never buy a mutual fund again.
Instead, you'll want to buy what are called index funds,
which are cheaper and beat the mutual funds
when it comes to performance, on average.
Don't worry, I'll cover that more
in part three of the course.
I just want to put this on your radar screen now.
I don't want you to trust
all banks or all financial services companies
because they're not all the same.
You wouldn't buy the first house you saw
or the first car you're considering buying.
So I want you just to take your time
and find the bank with the lowest fees,
and that is the safest place to park your hard-earned money.
This is a great segue now to discussing
government insurance on your money.
In many countries,
the government insures up to a certain amount
on your money in a bank
in case that bank goes bankrupt.
That's probably how they got the word bankrupt.
So, for example,
the amount is currently $250,000 in the United States,
and it's called FDIC insurance,
or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
And that means that if you leave your money
in a bank in the United States,
it's insured up until $250,000.
If you have $300,000 and the bank goes belly up,
you lose 50K.
And so, different countries have different limits,
and these limits will change,
I promise you, they always do.
So please find out what the limit is
on the bank you use in your country,
and if it's a very small amount,
then here's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna consider using
several different banks if applicable.
And some countries make the limit applicable
to certain kinds of accounts.
So you can have a minimum limit of 250K, for example,
in each type of account with the same bank.
Just ask your bank for more details.
Don't just rely on a bank manager
or a financial advisor to tell you the rules.
From now on, please go right to the source
and read, read, read the rules yourself, please.
For example, in the United States, the rules are here.
For every country, it's different.
In Canada, the limit dollar-wise
is 100,000 Canadian dollars, per this link.
In Brazil, it's 250,000 real.
In most European countries, it's close to 100,000 euros.
And just, for more details on the insurance on your money
in your country, please click on the settings buttons here
and scroll down to the gray box and
look at the very last hyperlink, if it's there.
If you don't see a hyperlink there,
then just do a search on
insurance bank protection government and your country name.
Separately, if you're interested in learning more
about deposit insurance in all countries,
you can click on this link here.
Now, if you don't feel comfortable
with the banks in the country that you live in,
then you can even consider depositing some of your money
in Canadian banks.
I'm saying this because there's only five or six
main banks in Canada,
and they're highly regulated,
and none of them went belly up in 2008
versus many banks that went bankrupt in the United States.
If your country doesn't offer insurance
on your money in your bank,
then consider having some of your money in a Canadian bank.
And I'm sure that Switzerland and other countries are
good alternatives as well.
Just please do your own research first,
don't just rely on me, please, thank you.
And in general,
if you use a large bank as your primary and only bank,
then usually, your entire deposits are insured.
Why use a large bank?
Because later in the course, I'm gonna discuss
many different ways to invest your money,
and the largest banks
usually have their own investment departments,
which is very convenient when
we are going to invest our savings in index funds,
or bonds, or commodities,
or real estate investment trusts, et cetera.
And this will all make much more sense to you
in part three of the course when we discuss making money.
Now, if the bank does not have investment divisions,
then they can recommend, just ask them,
which investment firms to use,
or we can find them ourselves.
Again, we'll cover this in part three of the course.
And so the bottom line here is
to use a large, well-known bank if you can,
as they usually have deposit insurance
and are usually too big too fail.
I cringe when I say that.
And if you get a chance, please,
the best movie ever
that explains what really happened in 2008
is called Too Big to Fail,
and you can rent it here on YouTube.
DTA when it comes to your money.
DTA stands for don't trust anyone.
And I want you to read all disclosures from now on
before putting your money anywhere.
You work so damn hard for your money,
and I just want your hard work to be protected.
And there's so many unethical hidden fees
that companies will try to charge you.
So please read the disclosures,
and read them again, as painful as that may seem.
And when we visit a doctor and they want us to do surgery
on your loved one, yourself, whatever,
you always review in massive detail what the risks are
and you get a second opinion sometimes.
And we really need to do the same when it comes
to our hard-earned money.
And so in the next lesson, we're gonna do an exercise
to make sure that your money is safe
and that you are not getting ripped off on fees.